MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT
This Master Services Agreement (“MSA”) is between 
{{Client}}, an investment entity based in {{Jurisdiction}} and whose registered address is at {{Client Address}} and whose correspondence address is the same with contact telephone number {{Client Contact Telephone Number}} hereinafter referred to in this document as “{{Client}}”, “Client”, and/or “you” 
And
{{Service Provider}}, a company trading and incorporated in {{Jurisdiction}} under {{Company Registration Number}} and whose registered office is at {{Service Provider Address}} with contact telephone number {{Service Provider Contact Telephone Number}} (hereinafter referred to as “{{Service Provider Abbreviation}}”, which expression shall mean to include its successors, assignees and service providers).

1. DEFINED TERMS. The following words, when capitalized, have the meaning stated: 
“Affiliate” means any legal entity that a party owns, that owns a party, or that is under its common control, where control means control of more than a 50% interest in an entity. 
“Agreement” means, collectively, this MSA and any applicable Service Order, Service Schedules , or other addenda which govern the provision of Services. 
“Auto Renewal Term” means the automatic renewal period following expiry of the Initial Term, for consecutive rolling 90-day auto-renewal terms. 
“Business Day” means Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays, in the country whose laws govern the Agreement. 
 “Client Information” means information obtained from or supplied by clients for the provision of Services.
“Client System ” means an information technology system (hardware, software and/or other information technology components) which is the subject of the Services or to which the Services relate. 
 “Client Data/Content” means all data which client receives, stores, or transmits on or using the Client System . 
“Client IP” means Client’s pre-existing Intellectual Property. 
“Confidential Information” means non-public information disclosed by one party to the other in any form that: (i) is designated as “Confidential”; (ii) a reasonable person knows or reasonably should understand to be confidential; or (iii) includes either party’s products, clients, marketing and promotions, know-how, or the negotiated terms of the Agreement; and which is not independently developed by the other party without reference to the other’s Confidential Information or otherwise known to the other party on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure.
“Deliverables” means the tangible or intangible materials which are prepared for Client’s use in the course of performing the Services and that are specifically identified in a Service Order as Deliverables and described therein. 
“Deliverable Resource Requirements” means those resources or information identified by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} as required and / or necessary to perform the Services, including but not limited to Third-Party Software, business data, industry data, trade publication or other business resources, as described in Service Order or mutually agreed by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client in writing . 
“Fees” means the fees payable under the applicable Service Order. 
“{{IAC}}” means the “{{International Arbitration Centre}}” 
“Initial Term” means the initial term of the applicable Service Order. 
“Intellectual Property” means patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and any other proprietary intellectual property rights. 
“Libor” means London Inter-bank Offered Rate is an interest-rate average calculated from estimates submitted by the leading banks in London.

“Local Withholding Taxes” means withholding (or similar) taxes imposed on income that may be attributable to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} in connection with its provision of the Services that Client is legally required to withhold and remit to the applicable governmental or taxing authority. 
“{{Service Provider Abbreviation}}” or “we” means the {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Affiliate identified in the Service Order, or if none is identified {{Service Provider}} Limited. 
“One Time Services” means Services which are provided on a one-off basis.
“Recurring Services” means Services which are provided on an on-going basis. 
“Renewal Term” means a fixed term extension of the Service Order term. 
“Representatives” means a party’s respective service providers, officers, directors, employees, contractors, Affiliates, suppliers, and agents. 
“Sensitive Data” means any: (i) personally identifiable information or information that is referred to as personal data (including sensitive personal data under applicable data protection or privacy law and includes information that by itself or combined with other information can be used to identify a person; (ii) financial records; and (iii) other sensitive, regulated, or confidential information. 
“Services” means the {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} services identified in a specific Service Order. 
“Service Level Agreement” or “SLA” means any provision providing a specified credit remedy for an identified failure to deliver or provide the Services to the identified standard. 
“Service Order” means the document describing the Services mutually agreed by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client in writing. 
 “Service Schedule(s)” means additional terms and conditions incorporated in a Service Order which contain additional service-specific obligations. “Tax” means any value added, goods and services, sales, use, property, excise, and like taxes, import duties and/or applicable levies arising out of the provision of the Services. 
 “Third-Party Fee” means the direct or indirect fees by a third-party license provider charged to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for Client’s use of Third-Party Software. 

 “Third-Party Software” means those third-party software applications or services used in connection with the Services. 
“Third-Party Services Agreements” means those agreements for products and services provided by third parties, which are entered into directly between Client and such third party. Third Party Services Agreements are separate and independent from the Agreement, and {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} is not a party to and is not responsible for the performance of any Third-Party Services Agreements. 
“Unsupported Services” means Services designated by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} as “non-standard”, “reasonable endeavors”, “best efforts”, or with like designation in a Service Order. 

2. SERVICES 

2.1. General. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall provide the Services in accordance with this Agreement and all laws applicable to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall provide support only to those Representatives designated by Client. Client remains liable for the acts and omissions of Client’s Representatives . 

2.2. Use Limitations. The information contained in the Deliverables is intended for exclusive use by Client only. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} does not make any representations, warranties or guaranties of any kind regarding the success of the advice and recommendations provided by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} in connection with the Services, including without limitation the future performance of Client. It is the responsibility of Client to satisfy to the full observance of the laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdictions. Clients are advised to take all necessary legal, regulatory and tax advice on the consequences of an investment. Reliance upon information is at the sole discretion of the Client.

3. OBLIGATIONS 

3.1. General. For Services where {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s access to the Client Information is necessary to perform the Services, Client shall grant {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} a reasonable method to access the Client Information. Client shall furnish information required or reasonably requested by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to successfully conclude the Project. Client is responsible for keeping its information accessible and up to date. Client agrees that it is solely responsible for the suitability of the Services and Client’s compliance with any applicable laws, including export laws and data privacy laws. 

3.2. Data Backup. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall only back up data to the extent stated on a Service Order. Client is responsible for ensuring the integrity and security of Client Data, and for regularly backing up and validating the integrity of backups of Client Data on an environment separate from the Client Environment. 

3.3. Safe Working Environment. The Client must at all times provide a safe working environment for {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s staffing if working onsite in the Client locations or on site at a location of the Client’s choosing.  For the purpose of clarity, a safe working environment shall be defined by the Client Primary locations’ local workplace safety requirements and regulations provided they are of equal quality to those of the {{Arbitration Jurisdication}}’s. If local safety regulations do not exist or are not of sufficiently acceptable standards, then requirements as stipulated in {{Arbitration Jurisdication}} shall apply. 

4. SECURITY. 

{{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall provide the Services in accordance with the Security and Privacy Practices and any additional security specifications identified in the Service Order or Service Schedules . 
Client shall use reasonable security measures and precautions in connection with its use of the Services, including appropriately securing and encrypting in transit and at rest Sensitive Data stored on or transmitted using the Client System ; and shall take appropriate measures to otherwise prevent access to Sensitive Data by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} where {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s access to the premises, systems or networks managed or operated by Client may result in its exposure. Client Data is, and at all times shall remain, Client’s exclusive property. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall not use or disclose Client Data except as materially required to perform the Services or as required by law. 

5. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. 

5.1. Pre-Existing. Each party shall retain exclusive ownership of Intellectual Property created, authored, or invented by it prior to the commencement of the Services. If Client provides {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} with its Client IP, Client hereby grants to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, during the term of the applicable Service Order, a limited, worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free, right and license (with right of sub-license where required to perform the Services) to use the Client IP solely for the purpose of providing the Services. Client represents and warrants that Client has all rights in the Client IP necessary to grant this license, and that {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s use of Client IP shall not infringe on the Intellectual Property rights of any third party. 

5.2. Proprietary Rights; Deliverables. Unless otherwise specifically stated in the applicable Service Order, and excluding any Pre-Existing {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} IP, as between the parties, the Client shall own all Intellectual Property created in providing the Services or contained in the Deliverables. 

5.4. Infringement. If the delivery of the Services or provision of Deliverables infringes the Intellectual Property of a third party and/or the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction pertinent to the Services, and {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} determines that it is not reasonably or commercially practicable to obtain the right to use the infringing element, or modify the Services or Deliverables such that they do not infringe, then {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may terminate the infringing Services and/or Deliverables on 30 days’ notice and shall not have any liability on account of such termination except to refund amounts paid for unused Services (prorated as to portions of the Services and/or Deliverables deemed infringing). 

6. FEES. 

6.1. Fees. Client shall pay the Fees upon receipt of invoice. If Client has arranged for payment by credit card or automated clearing house, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may charge Client’s card or account on or after the invoice date. If Client’s undisputed payment is overdue by 30 days or more, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may suspend the associated Services and any other services Client receives from {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} on written notice. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall undertake collection efforts prior to suspension. Invoices that are not disputed within 60 days of the invoice date are conclusively deemed to be accepted as accurate by Client. Client shall pay the Fees in the currency identified on the Service Order, and, except as expressly permitted in Section 6.4, without setoff, counterclaim, deduction, or withholding. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may charge interest on overdue amounts at the greater of 1.5% per month or the maximum legal rate and may charge Client for any cost or expense arising out of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s collection efforts. To the extent there is a conflict between terms provided in this MSA and the terms of the Service Order, the Service Order shall be the governing document.

6.2. Taxes. All amounts payable under this Agreement are exclusive of all sales, use, value-added, withholding and other taxes and duties. Client will pay all taxes and duties assessed in connection with this Agreement and its performance by Client’s local authorities, without set-off or reduction in amounts payable to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}.

6.3. Reimbursement for Expenses. Unless otherwise agreed in the Service Order, if any of the Services are performed at Client’s premises, Client agrees to reimburse {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for the actual substantiated out-of-pocket expenses of its Representatives, provided that such expenses have been approved by Client in advance. 

6.4 Travel and Accommodation. Unless otherwise agreed in the Service Order, travel and accommodation expenses are to be covered by the Client; accommodation to be provided in minimum 4-Star/business standard hotels or equivalent furnished accommodation with business standard internet connections, provided that such expenses have been approved by Client in advance.
Where {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Representatives are requested to make their own travel arrangements and recharge the actual cost or an agreed flight allowance to the Client, unless directed otherwise by the Client, they will attempt bookings in the following order of preference:
-	on the Client airline where applicable;
-	on an airline that the Client has a reciprocal travel arrangement;
-	on a third-party airline.
Business Class airfare is permissible only for flights more than eight hours direct flight time.

6.5	Payments. All payments of Fees and Expenses shall be made in immediately available funds by Client to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} by wire transfer to the nominated account as directed in writing by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to the Client,
All invoices are due upon receipt and any invoices greater than 30 days old shall accrue interest until paid in full at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month, but not to exceed the highest rate permissible under law.  In addition, Client agrees to pay or reimburse {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for all collection costs incurred by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, including reasonable attorney’s fees.

6.6	Taxation on Services Rendered. All fees and other payments to be made to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} under this Agreement are to be made in cleared funds, without any deduction, set-off or counterclaim and free and clear and without deduction on account of any “Taxes”, levies, fees and withholdings of any nature now or hereafter imposed,
If Client is compelled by law or otherwise to make any such deduction, Client will pay to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} such additional amounts as are necessary to ensure receipt by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} of the full amount which {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} would have received but for the deduction; provided, however, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} agrees that in such an event {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall promptly pass through to Client any tax credit benefits if and when received by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} with respect to income taxes otherwise owed, 
"Taxes" shall mean any and all fees (including license, recording, documentation and registration fees), taxes (including, without limitation, income, gross receipts, capital, franchise, net worth, gross profits, sales, rental, use, turnover, value added, ad valorem, property (tangible and intangible), excise, documentary and stamp taxes), licenses, levies, imposts, duties, charges, assessments or withholdings of any nature whatsoever, whether now existing or hereafter adopted, enacted or amended, howsoever imposed, levied or asserted by any government entity or taxing authority together with any and all penalties, fines, additions to tax and interest thereon.

7. DISCLAIMERS 

7.1. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} makes no commitment to provide any services other than the Services stated in the Service Order. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} is not responsible to Client or any third party for unauthorized access to Client Data or for unauthorized use of the Services that is not solely caused by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s failure to meet its security obligations in Section 4. To the maximum extent permitted by law, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} disclaims all responsibility for any situation where the security, availability, or stability of the Services is compromised by: (i) actions of the Client or any end user; (ii) software provided by Client; or (iii) any actions taken by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} which are requested by Client and not based on the advice or recommendation of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations in the Agreement to the extent that such failure arises from a failure of Client to comply with its obligations under the Agreement. 

7.2. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may designate certain Services as Unsupported Services. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} makes no representation or warranty with respect to Unsupported Services except that it shall use reasonable efforts as may be expected of specialists having generalized knowledge and training in the Services concerned. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall not be liable to Client for any loss or damage arising from the provision of Unsupported Services and SLAs shall not apply to Unsupported Services, or any other aspect of the Client Environment that is adversely affected by Unsupported Services. At Client’s request, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may provide services that are not required by the Agreement. Any such services shall be provided AS-IS with no warranty whatsoever. 

7.3. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and its Representatives disclaim any and all warranties not expressly stated in the Agreement to the maximum extent permitted by law including implied warranties such as merchantability, satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. 

7.4. Except as expressly provided herein, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} makes no representation or warranty whatsoever regarding any third-party products or services which we may recommend for your consideration. 

8. TERM AND TERMINATION 

8.1. Term. This MSA shall continue for 1 year until terminated in accordance with its terms. Service Orders for Recurring Services shall be subject to the Auto Renewal Term unless: (i) otherwise stated in the Agreement or Service Order(s)  (ii) the parties enter into a Renewal Term agreement, or (iii) either party provides the other with written notice of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the then current term. 

8.2. Termination for Cause. Either party may terminate the Agreement or the affected Service Order(s) for cause on written notice if the other party materially breaches the Agreement and, where the breach is remediable, does not remedy the breach within 30 days of the non-breaching party’s written notice describing the breach. 
8.2.1. If following suspension of Client’s Services for non-payment, payment of any invoiced undisputed amount remains overdue for a further ten days, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may terminate the Agreement or the applicable Service Order(s) for breach on written notice. 

8.2.2. Subject to applicable law, either {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} or Client may terminate this MSA and any Service Order on written notice if the other party enters into compulsory or voluntary liquidation, or ceases for any reason to carry on business, or takes or suffers any similar action which the other party reasonably believes means that it may be unable to pay its debts. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the Fees for the Services through the conclusion of all Service Order(s) shall become due immediately in the event {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} terminates the MSA in accordance with this Section. 

8.2.3. Consequences of Termination: Except as otherwise provided under any separate written agreement between {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client:
i)	Termination for any Reason other than Default by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}: if this Agreement is terminated for any reason other than pursuant to Section 6(a)(ii)(3), above, Client shall: 
(1)	pay {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} any Fees earned in whole or in part by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} through the effective date of termination,
(2)	reimburse {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for all Expenses otherwise payable under this Agreement that are incurred by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} through the effective date of termination, and 
(3)	if Client consummates, or enters into an agreement in principle to engage in (and which subsequently closes), any Transaction within eighteen (18) months after the effective date of termination, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} shall be entitled to receive its Transaction Success Fee upon the consummation of such Transactions as if no such termination had occurred.
ii)	Termination for a Default by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}: if this Agreement is terminated by Client pursuant to Section 6(a)(ii)(3), above:
(1)	Client shall be obligated to reimburse {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for all Expenses otherwise payable under this Agreement that are incurred by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} through the effective date of termination,
(2)	Client shall have no obligation to pay any further Fees to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}},
(3)	For avoidance of doubt, any Fees paid by Client prior to the effective date of termination shall be retained by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}.
c)	Survival: notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Sections 1, 2, 3.1, 4, 5, 6, and  of this Agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

9. Independent Relationship of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client:
9.1	The relationship of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client under this Agreement is and at all times shall remain that of independent contractors,
9.2 Nothing in this Agreement or the attached schedules or annexes shall be construed to create a joint venture, partnership, franchise, employment or agency relationship between them, and accordingly, neither {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} nor Client shall represent itself as having, nor does either party have, the right, power, or authority to bind or otherwise create any obligation or duty, express or implied, on behalf of the other party in any manner whatsoever,

9.3 Personnel provided by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to provide services to Client hereunder shall continue to be employees of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, and such persons shall be subject to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s supervision and control,

9.4 Each party shall be liable and shall indemnify, defend and hold the other harmless for all taxes and benefits arising from the employment of their respective employees involved in the performance of the services hereunder,

9.5 Each party accepts full and exclusive liability for the payments of workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance premiums with respect to its own employees and for the payment of all taxes, contributions or other payments for unemployment compensation or old age benefits, pensions or annuities now or hereafter imposed upon employers by a governmental authority having jurisdiction with respect to its employees, measured by the wages, salaries, compensation, or other remuneration paid to its employees.

9.6 {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s Other Relationships: Client acknowledges and agrees that {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} provides advisory and consulting services to a broad array of companies in the airline, aviation, and travel sectors, and such relationships cannot be subsequently claimed as a reason for termination of this Agreement.  

9.7 Successors and Assigns: {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and Client agree that neither party may assign this Agreement nor any portion of its duties hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party to this Agreement, and such consent may be withheld at the other party’s sole discretion. 

9.8 No Third Party Beneficiaries: Client agrees that any materials prepared by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for Client’s use are for the exclusive use of Client, and cannot be shared with other parties without the advance written consent of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}.  This Agreement shall not confer any rights or remedies upon any person or entity other than the parties hereto.

10. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. Each party agrees not to use the other’s Confidential Information except in connection with the performance or use of the Services, the exercise of its legal rights under the Agreement, or as required by law, and shall use reasonable care to protect Confidential Information from unauthorized disclosure. Each party agrees not to disclose the other’s Confidential Information to any third party except: (i) to its Representatives, provided that such Representatives agree to confidentiality measures that are at least as stringent as those stated in this MSA; (ii) as required by law; (iii) in response to a subpoena or court order or other compulsory legal process, provided that the party subject to such process shall give the other written notice of at least seven days prior to disclosing Confidential Information unless the law forbids such notice; or (iv) with the other party’s consent. 

11. LIMITATIONS ON DAMAGES. 

11.1. Direct Damages. Subject to Section 10.2, and otherwise notwithstanding anything in the Agreement to the contrary: 

11.1.1. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s liability arising from: (i) death or personal injury caused by negligence, (ii) willful misconduct, (iii) fraudulent misrepresentation, or (iv) any other loss or damages for which such limitation is expressly prohibited by applicable law, shall be the total amount paid by Client to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for the Services in the 3 months immediately preceding the event(s) that first gave rise to the claim. 

11.1.2. Subject to Section 10.1.1, the maximum aggregate monetary liability of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and any of its Representatives in connection with the Services or the Agreement under any theory of law shall not exceed the actual damages incurred up to the greater of: (i) an amount equal to the Fees payable by Client for the Services that are the subject of the claim in the first month in which Fees are charged under the Agreement; or (ii) the total amount paid by Client to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for the Services that are the subject of the claim in the 3 months immediately preceding the event(s) that first gave rise to the claim. 

11.1.3. The limitations on damages set forth in this Section 10.1 are cumulative and not per incident with all payments being aggregated to determine satisfaction of the limit. The existence of one or more claims will not enlarge the limit. 

11.2. Indirect Damages. Neither party (nor any of its Representatives) is liable to the other party for any indirect, special, incidental, exemplary, or consequential loss or damages of any kind. Neither party is liable for any loss that could have been avoided by the damaged party’s use of reasonable diligence, even if the party responsible for the damages has been advised or should be aware of the possibility of such damages. In no event shall either party be liable to the other for any punitive damages; costs of procurement or substitute goods or services; or for any loss of profits, data, revenue, business opportunities, clients, contracts, goodwill, or reputation. 

11.3. SLA Credits (Applicable to Products and Services offerings only). Due to the unique nature of the Services contemplated by the Agreement, it is impossible to determine the specific damages that might be incurred by Client, or the specific amount that should be the responsibility of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, as a result of a failure of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to meet the SLA(s). It is understood that Client may be damaged by such failure of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to meet the SLA(s), that it would be impracticable to fix the actual damages resulting therefrom, that any credits that become payable under an SLA(s) are in the nature of liquidated damages, and not a penalty, are fair and reasonable under the circumstances, and represent a reasonable estimate of fair compensation for the losses that may reasonably be anticipated from {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s failure to meet the SLA(s). As an essential part of the Agreement, the liquidated damages payable under the SLA(s) shall be the credits stated in any applicable SLA’s which are Client’s sole and exclusive remedy for {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s failure to meet those guarantees for which credits are provided. The maximum credit(s) for failures to meet any applicable SLA’s for any calendar month shall not exceed 50% of the then current monthly recurring Fee for the Services. Client is not entitled to a credit if Client is in breach of the Agreement at the time of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the credit, until such time as Client has remedied the breach. No credit shall be due if the credit would not have accrued but for Client’s action or omission. 

12.INDEMNIFICATION

12.1 In connection with any services or matters that are the subject of or arise out of the Agreement or {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s engagement to advise and assist the Client with the matters set forth in this Agreement, the Client hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, its affiliated companies, and each of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s and such affiliated companies’ respective officers, directors, agent, employees, contractors and controlling persons (each of the forgoing, including {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, being hereinafter referred to as an “Indemnified Person”) to the fullest extent permitted by law from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, reasonable expenses (including reasonable fees, disbursements, and other charges of counsel), actions, proceedings, arbitration or investigations (whether formal or informal) (all of the foregoing being referred to as “Liabilities”), based upon, relating to, or arising out of such engagement or any Indemnified Person’s role therein.
12.2 Provided, however, that the Client shall not be liable under this paragraph: 
12.2.1 for any amount paid in settlement of claims without the Client’s consent, unless the Client’s consent is unreasonably withheld, 
12.2.2 for any Liabilities based upon, relating to, or arising out of any {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} engagement with any third party, including without limitation any actual or alleged breach of fiduciary duty or confidentiality obligation owed by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} to any third party, or 
12.2.3 to the extent that it is finally judicially determined, or expressly stated in an arbitration award, that such Liabilities resulted primarily from the willful misconduct or gross negligence (which in all cases hereunder will be deemed to include any violation of applicable law) of the Indemnified Person seeking indemnification.
12.3 In connection with the Client’s obligation to indemnify for expenses as set forth above, the Client further agrees to reimburse each Indemnified Person for all such expenses (including reasonable fees, disbursements, and other charges of counsel) as they are incurred by such Indemnified Person; provided, however, that if an Indemnified Person is reimbursed hereunder for any expenses, the amount so paid shall be refunded if and to the extent it is finally judicially determined, or expressly stated in an arbitration award, that the Liabilities in question resulted primarily from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnified Person. The Client hereby agrees that neither {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} nor any other Indemnified Person shall have any liability to the Client (or anyone claiming through the Client or in the Client’s name) in connection with {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s engagement by the Client except to the extent that such Indemnified Person has engaged in willful misconduct or been grossly negligent.
12.4 Promptly after {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} receives notice of the commencement of any action or other proceeding in respect of which indemnification or reimbursement may be sought hereunder, {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} will notify the Client thereof; but the omission so to notify the Client shall not relieve the Client from any obligation hereunder unless, and only to the extent that, the Client shall have been materially prejudiced by such failure. If any such action or other proceeding shall be brought against any Indemnified Person, the Client shall, upon written notice given reasonably promptly following {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s notice to the Client of such action or proceeding, be entitled to assume the defence thereof at the Client’s expense with counsel chosen by the Client and reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person; provided, however, that any Indemnified Person may, at its own expense retain separate counsel to participate in such defence. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such Indemnified Person shall have the right to employ separate counsel at the Client’s expense and to control its own defence of such action or proceeding if the named parties to any such claim or action include such Indemnified Person and the Client and in the reasonable opinion of counsel to such Indemnified Person there are or may be legal defences available to such Indemnified Person or to other Indemnified Persons that are different from or additional to those available to the Client; provided, however, that in no event shall the Client be required to pay fees and expenses under this indemnity for more than one firm of attorneys (in addition to local counsel) in any one legal action or group of related legal actions.  The Client agrees that it will not, without the prior written consent of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any pending or threatened claim, action, or proceeding relating to the matters contemplated by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s engagement (whether or not any Indemnified Person is a party thereto) unless such settlement, compromise, or consent includes an unconditional release of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and each other Indemnified Person from all liability arising or that may arise out of such claim, action, or proceeding.
12.5 If the indemnification of an Indemnified Person provided for hereunder is unavailable for any reason, then the Client agrees, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person, to contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such Liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received, or sought to be received, by the Client on the one hand and by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} on the other from the transactions in connection with the matters for which {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} has been engaged. If the allocation provided in the preceding sentence is not permitted by applicable law, then the Client agrees to contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such Liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in such preceding sentence but also the relative fault of the Client and of such Indemnified Person in connection with the matters to which such liabilities relate, and other equitable considerations.  
12.6 The rights accorded to Indemnified Persons hereunder shall be in addition to any rights that any Indemnified Person may have at common law, by separate agreement or otherwise and shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of any successors, assigns and personal representatives of us and each indemnified party.
12.7 THE CLIENT HEREBY CONSENTS, SOLELY FOR THE PURPOSE OF ALLOWING AN INDEMNIFIED PERSON TO ENFORCE ITS RIGHTS HEREUNDER, TO PERSONAL JURISDICTION AND SERVICE AND VENUE IN ANY COURT IN WHICH ANY CLAIM FOR WHICH INDEMNIFICATION MAY BE SOUGHT HEREUNDER IS BROUGHT AGAINST {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} OR ANY OTHER INDEMNIFIED PERSON.  
12.8 The Client and {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} also hereby irrevocably waive any right the Client and {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may have to a trial by jury in respect of any claim based upon or arising out of the engagement, or any transaction or conduct in connection therewith or this Annex. This Annex may not be amended or otherwise modified except by an instrument signed by both {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} and the Client.
12.9 If any provision hereof shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable in any respect, such determination shall not affect such provision in any other respect or any other provision of this Annex, which shall remain in full force and effect. The provisions of this Annex shall remain in effect indefinitely, notwithstanding any termination or completion of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s engagement.  
12.10 In the event {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} or its employees or agents appears as a witness in any action brought against the Client in which an Indemnified Party is not named as a defendant, the Client agrees to reimburse {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} for all reasonable expenses incurred and time expended by it in connection with appearing as a witness.
12.11 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the Client agrees that the total liability of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} in connection with this Agreement shall not in any event exceed the total fees charged by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} in connection with this Agreement.

13. NOTICES. All notices, requests, demands or other communications regarding commercial issues hereunder shall be in writing, hand-delivered, sent by registered mail, overnight mail, facsimile or email and shall be deemed to have been given when received at the following addresses:

To Client:
{{Client}}
{{Client Address}}
To {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}: 


{{Service Provider}}
{{Service Provider Address}}

All notices shall be given in the English language. 

14. PUBLICITY, USE OF MARKS. Each party agrees to support press announcements and other marketing efforts related to this Agreement.  Notwithstanding this, all publicity or press releases in relation to this Agreement will be subject to mutual written agreement between the Parties. 

15. ASSIGNMENT/SUBCONTRACTORS. Neither party may assign the Agreement or any Service Orders without the prior written consent of the other party, except to an Affiliate or successor as part of a corporate reorganization or a sale of some or all of its business, provided the assigning party notifies the other party of such change of control. {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} may use its Affiliates, Representatives or subcontractors to perform all or any part of the Services, but {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} remains responsible under the Agreement for work performed by its Affiliates, Representatives and subcontractors to the same extent as if {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} performed the Services itself. 

16. FORCE MAJEURE. Neither party shall be liable or be in breach of the Agreement (excluding in relation to the Client’s payment obligations) if the failure to perform the obligation is due to an event beyond its control, including significant failure of a part of the power grid, failure of the Internet, natural disaster or weather event, fire, acts or orders of government, war, riot, insurrection, epidemic, strikes or labor action, or terrorism. 

17. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement and any difference or dispute arising out of it or related to it shall be governed construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of {{Jurisdiction}}. 

Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration under the Rules of Arbitration of {{International Arbitration Centre}}. The Place of Arbitration shall be {{Arbitration Jurisdication}}. The language shall be English. The procedure shall be that of the Rules of Arbitration of {{International Arbitration Centre}}. The award made by the arbitrators shall be accepted as final and binding up on both parties. The parties agree to waive any right of application or appeal to any Court in connection with any question of law arising out of the award.

18. ANTI-BRIBERY/CORRUPTION PROCEDURES. Each Party is to ensure Anti-bribery/corruption procedures have been implemented and will make all reasonable ongoing efforts to ensure that its employees, consultants, Representatives, agents and any parties under the material control or influence of the Party comply with the English Bribery Act 2010 and any similar local legislation in the Party’s home and/or operating countries. 

19. NON CIRCUMVENTION & NON-EXCLUSIVITY. Each party agrees not to circumvent and/or bypass the other party by conducting business, directly or indirectly, with any other party introduced by the other party within a period of 6 calendar months from such introduction without the prior written consent of the other. In respect of the Services being provided by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, both parties agree that;

19.1	Whilst the Agreement is in force, neither party will negotiate or enter into any agreement with the intent to receive the Services from any other introduced party without the express written permission from the other party to this Agreement;

19.2	Neither party will disclose the content of, or provide a copy of this Agreement to any other party, whether or not the enterprises are successfully formed;

19.3	This Agreement is deemed to otherwise be non-exclusive.

20. EMPLOYMENT. 

20.1 The Client agrees not to approach any {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Representative concerning employment on a salaried basis or on any other contractual arrangement by the Client or a Client related entity, without the prior written agreement of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}, not to be unreasonably withheld. 

20.2 In the case that the Client wishes to engage a {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Representative with {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s prior written agreement on a salaried or contractual basis directly or indirectly that has previously been provided by {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} on a fee basis any time within a period of 12 preceding months, then the Client accepts to pay {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} a fee calculated as 15% of the Total Remuneration to be paid to the individual for the initial employment period with the Client of 12 months.

20.2.1 “Total Remuneration” will include components like basic salary, housing and relocation services, defined variable components of salary, fair value for any equities, options, warrants or other components of non-cash remuneration, insurances, health care and other benefits, all superannuation, special allowances, white goods, and all other reasonable remuneration items. Total Remuneration shall be calculated exclusive of any taxes linked to salaries or remuneration items as listed above. Any taxable items shall be grossed-up to ensure calculated total offsets any taxable items. 
Such fee to be paid before employment commences.

20.3 Should a {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Representative be hired or contracted directly or indirectly by the Client without {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}’s prior written agreement, the Client agrees to pay {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} compensation in recognition of the loss of the individual to {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}. The compensation will be based on the greater of:
20.3.1 {{...}}% of the monthly fees earned from the Representative’s assignment by the Client for a period of 12 month prior to employment, or if this period is shorter, calculated for a 12-month period on a pro-rata basis, or
20.3.2 {{...}}% of the overall salary and/or contractual fees for the individual for the initial employment period of 12 months the individual is employed and/or contracted directly or indirectly to the Client.

20.4 The Client agrees these clauses concerning employment of {{Service Provider Abbreviation}} Representatives on a salaried or other contractual arrangement basis will survive for 12 months past the expiry of any contract between the Client and {{Service Provider Abbreviation}}.

21. MISCELLANEOUS. 

21.1 The parties acknowledge and agree that the pricing and other terms in the Agreement reflect and are based upon the intended allocation of risk between the parties and form an essential part of the Agreement. If there is a conflict between the terms of the Agreement, the documents shall govern in the following order: the Service Order, the Service Schedules, and this MSA. The headings or captions in the Agreement are for convenience only. If over time you enter into multiple agreements for a given Client Information (for example to add additional components or services) then the most recent terms referenced in the Service Order(s) shall govern the entirety of the Services for the given Client Information . 

22.2 Unless otherwise expressly permitted in the Agreement, the terms of the Agreement may be varied only by a written agreement signed by both parties that expressly refers to the Agreement. A Service Order may be amended to modify, add, or remove services by a formal written agreement signed by both parties, or by an exchange of correspondence that includes the express consent of an authorized individual for each of us. The pre-printed terms of Client’s purchase order or other business form or terms that Client provides shall be void and of no effect. 

22.3 If any part of the Agreement is found unenforceable, the rest of the Agreement shall continue in effect, and the unenforceable part shall be reformed to the extent possible to make it enforceable and give business efficacy to the Agreement. Each party may enforce its respective rights under the Agreement even if it has waived the right or failed to enforce the same or other rights in the past. The relationship between the parties is that of independent contractors and not business partners. Neither party is the agent for the other and neither party has the right to bind the other on any agreement with a third party. The use of the word “including” means “including without limitation”. Other than Representatives for the purposes of Sections 7, 10, and 11, or as otherwise specifically designated a “Third Party Beneficiary”, there are no third-party beneficiaries to the Agreement. 

22.4 The following provisions shall survive expiration or termination of this MSA: Intellectual Property, Confidential Information, Indemnification, Limitation on Damages, Governing Law, Notices, Miscellaneous, all terms of the Agreement requiring Client to pay any Fees for Services provided prior to the time of expiration or termination, or requiring Client to pay an early termination Fee, and any other provisions that by their nature are intended to survive expiration or termination of the Agreement. 

22.5 The Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive understanding between the parties regarding its subject matter and supersedes and replaces any prior or contemporaneous representation(s), agreement(s) or understanding(s), written or oral. 
 


For and on behalf of {{Client}}
    For and on behalf of {{Service Provider}}

Signature:	Signature:
Name:	Name:
Title:	Title:
Address:	Address:
Email:	Email:
Phone:	Phone:

